So you're all very welcome here today.
It's great to see such interest
in the first of two localization
sessions that we're running this week.
My name is Colm Murphy,
and I manage a localization
tools group for Apple.
So I'm absolutely delighted and
privileged to be here today to
announce two new technologies that
are going to make your lives as
localization tool developers and
tool users a whole lot easier.
The first of these two new localization
technologies is a project called Monty.
It's a code name for a project
we've been working on for
about a year and a half now.
And the first version I'm absolutely
thrilled to be able to announce today.
This project called Monty
is actually middleware.
It's a data services library
which provides a lot of services
and various features for you,
the localization tool developer.
And so the second technology that
I want to talk to you today about is
a project called AppleGlot version 3.
It's a third generation of a tool that
has been in existence for some time.
But this is a complete revolution.
It's a redesign.
It's a new modern feel and look.
And it handles modern data types
and techniques and so forth.
So the complete spectrum
of localization tools,
if you look at any modern
localization process,
you're going to see tools in many
of these different types of areas,
whether it's in release
engineering or in the translation
and localization process itself.
And the two technologies that we
were going to talk to you today
about fall into the area of text
extraction and text insertion,
or probably more accurately,
localizable data extraction
and localizable data insertion.
So, what is Monty?
Well, first of all,
in order to illustrate this,
what I want to do is explain
an industry-wide problem.
On the bottom here,
you can see that we've
got some structured data.
This is any type of data,
probably packed binary
data of some format.
It might be a nib file,
it might be a resource file,
it could be anything.
And presumably,
this structured data contains
some localizable information.
So,
it's information that you want to get at,
whether it's strings that you
want to extract to translate,
or whether it's bounding rectangles
or whatever that you want to actually
localize for a particular product.
And on the top,
what I've done is grouped three different
types of localization tools together,
such that these are the types of tools
that actually typically manipulate those
types of data in a localization process.
And the first type of tool
that we have... is they're
the data editing tools.
These are the tools that are
like Interface Builder and the
ResEdits and the resources,
etc.
And they typically need to interface
with this structured data in some format.
Okay?
The second type of tool... groups
of tools that we have are the
incremental localization tools.
And these tools are the AppleGlots
and so forth that have formed the
core of your localization process.
And the third type of localization
tools... that operate on structured
data are those tools which
specify localization rules.
They specify the relationships and
the dependencies between different
types of data to be localized.
So, across the industry,
what has typically happened is that
the tools themselves have always
operated directly on the data types.
They've interfaced directly
with that structured data.
They've had to interpret
the format of data.
They've had to interpret which
elements of that formatted data
actually are the localizable ones.
And they've had the responsibility of
extracting and inserting that data during
any sort of a localization process.
And this creates a couple
of fundamental problems.
First of all,
what happens when that data changes?
You know,
your engineering department might
bring out a new kind of variant
of that data type to describe
new structures or whatever.
Suddenly, the localization tool developer
has to go off and describe that
new format either with a complex
template mechanism or revise his tool,
his localization tool,
which is typically what he does to
handle that variant of data type.
And more important,
what happens is that the
data type changes altogether.
So, what you've got is you've got,
for some strange reason,
maybe it's an engineering department
producing a new data type.
Maybe, you know,
it's Apple producing new files
that maybe eventually will
be available to the public.
And so, you know, you have to go back and
look at the data type.
And you have to go back
and look at the data type.
of interest like help files
or something like that,
or it might be the industry actually
producing maybe new different
types of technology whether
it's XML files or HTML files,
et cetera.
So the burden falls on the localization
tool developer or the process developers
themselves to actually respond to
these new different data types.
So what has happened across the industry?
And I've looked at many different
companies and I've seen similarities
right across the industry here.
It doesn't matter what
platform you're working off of,
the same thing happens.
The localization tool development
department or the process people,
what they do is they develop new
tools to handle these new data types.
So what happens over a three or a four
or a five year period is that you end
up with hundreds of different types of
tools and all fundamentally the same.
The only thing they're doing is
actually extracting and inserting
different types of data from
different types of data forms.
So what we've done.
We've done at Apples,
we've recognized that this
is a fundamental problem.
It certainly has caused me grief
over the last few years as a
localization tool development manager.
So what we've done is sat
back from the problem,
looked at it and said, "Well,
there must be a simpler way.
There has to be a more efficient
way of doing this." And there is.
And that project is called Monty.
So what we've done is we've created
this middleware and this is kind of
like a toolbox which the localization
tool developers can actually
build their tools on top of.
So what happens is that when
a localization tool actually
wants a piece of data,
a piece of localizable data,
what it does is it asks Monty for it.
Monty then takes the request,
takes care of any sort of
translation of script systems or
character formats or whatever it is,
can interpret the actual structure
of the data through a very
simple translator mechanism.
And it's also capable of identifying
which are the localizable elements
within that structured data.
So what it does is it takes
that data in question,
presents it back up through a common API,
back up to the localization tools.
So what you have is you have
something that's actually
doing all the work for you.
In the same way when the
localization tool itself does its
manipulation at the higher levels,
presumably it sends it
out for translation,
the translation comes back in,
the translation is encapsulated.
And the tool itself makes a basic
API call to Monty to repack that data.
Monty takes that data itself,
does any necessary encodings
and script conversions,
et cetera, and repacks the data into
that final structured form.
You don't need, as tool developers,
you do not need to know
what type of data it is.
Monty takes care of everything for you.
and why is that important?
Well,
it's important because the structured
data shown at the bottom of this program,
and again,
it could be a lib file or a resort file,
it doesn't matter what it is,
that data can change,
can change significantly.
And your localization tools and
your process tools and everything
else don't have to change.
A very simple translator,
which plugs into Monty,
represents new different data types.
Very, very simple compared to previous
complex template mechanisms.
Very, very simple model.
It also handles very modern data
types and object-oriented structures,
etc.
So enough about Monty for a second.
We'll get into that in
more detail in a minute.
So what is AppleGlot?
Well, a lot of you are going to
be familiar with AppleGlot.
AppleGlot was actually a
revolutionary tool back in 1987.
The first version was released
and created a complete revolution
within the localization industry,
because what it did for the
first time was it created an
incremental localization model.
And what is an incremental
localization model?
Well,
an incremental localization model is
not only a process where it gives you,
where it can extract the localizable
strings and insert the translated
strings into your objects.
It is actually a process which allows
you to propagate previously translated
and localized information from previous
builds and from previous releases.
And typically,
these are the information wouldn't
have changed between builds.
It also is, again,
capable of extracting and
inserting your localized text.
So what's new?
What's new about AppleGlot?
Well, first thing,
it's a completely new application.
It's designed from the ground up
using modern development techniques,
modern architectures, etc.
It's a carbon-based application,
which is going to provide support
for all the modern data types
that you're seeing under 8,
9, 10, etc.
The second thing is that it uses Monty.
For all the reasons
I just described earlier,
it doesn't need to know
about data formats.
It basically, Monty handles everything.
So it's making very
simple API calls to Monty.
Monty's doing all the work for it.
So it's the first serious
application that's actually
using the Monty framework.
The second thing is that this is
actually a flexible framework.
The application architecture
itself is actually based around
a centralized state machine.
And it's a very modular in design,
such that you,
as localization tool developers,
can actually create custom plugins into
AppleGlot to customize this operation.
So it's a very simple application.
It's a very simple application.
I mean,
incremental localization is only one
of the things that AppleGlot can do.
You can now customize by developing
these plugins through a series of SDKs,
which we're providing.
You can actually create these plugins
to interface AppleGlot into very simple
or very complex localization processes.
And why is that important?
Well, what you want to be able to do
is you want to be able to use
AppleGlot such that it can interface
possibly with some computer-aided
translation machine in a different
platform or a different country.
And that's what we're trying to do.
So what we've done is designed
this very modular architecture.
It provides all the basic
functions of Glotting,
but also you have the
capability of expanding it.
It's totally extensible and very,
very flexible.
Very, very flexible.
Very important for a modern
localization process.
But do you know what the most
important thing and the most important
aspect of these two technologies are?
I'm going to bring up some of my
engineers in a second to go through these
two types of technologies in more detail.
But the most significant aspect
of these two technologies is,
one, we're not going to charge you
$50,000 for these technologies.
And we're not even going to charge
you $6.99 for these technologies,
right?
And you definitely don't have
to buy a box of cereal to
get these two technologies.
Because what we're doing
is it's completely free.
We're making these
available free of charge.
The SDKs, the examples, the technologies,
we're making them available free
of charge to developers to do
whatever you want to do with them.
And we have the necessary support through
our worldwide developer support services.
And you'll be able to feedback
any comments and suggestions
for upgrades in the future.
So what I want to do is... Thank you.
So what I want to do is I want
to bring the chief architect of
the Monty Project up on stage,
Christian Walsh.
And I want to bring him up to stage to
go through the finer detail of what Monty
is and what it's going to do for you.
Thank you.
So I'm going to talk to you in a
bit more detail about the Monty
technology that Colm has given
such an excellent sales pitch for.
[Transcript missing]
technology.
First of all, what is Monty?
Well, Monty is the foundation
for the next generation of
localization tools inside Apple,
and we're hoping outside Apple as well.
It provides data extraction and
editing services to any type
of tool that wants to use them.
Now, this may not be just in
the localization area,
but also for data editing tools,
for example.
So the main features of
Monty are first of all,
the big thing,
we're going to provide you with a way
of developing your applications quicker.
That's always good.
Because we've put in a lot of effort
into getting the data extraction and
reinsertion features of Monty working,
you don't have to.
So you can just take our
work and build upon it,
and everyone's happy.
Second, Unicode support.
We are providing support
for Unicode in Monty.
If you've seen any of the other sessions,
and I hope you have,
you'll know that OS X is Unicode-based.
The future of the Mac OS is Unicode.
So we're providing you
with a way of editing,
creating,
manipulating Unicode-based structures.
Third, we have support for
object-oriented data structures.
All modern software is object-oriented.
The data structures it uses
are also object-oriented.
This means we need
tools that support them.
Unfortunately, the current generation of
localization tools don't deal very
well with object-oriented data.
Monty, hopefully, will change this.
and most importantly,
we were insulating your tools
from any changes in the format of
the data they need to manipulate.
So looking at Unicode support of Monty,
you can see that inside of Monty,
which is the two boxes in
the middle in this diagram,
you can see that Monty,
by providing the extraction and recoding
services into Unicode text for you,
insulates your application from
the details of what a Macintosh
Roman encoding is or what
Big Five encoding is on the other end.
So for the tool developer,
they just replaced the text there,
sample text,
with its equivalent in Chinese and
let Monty worry about the
recoding and the repacking.
So if we look at Monty's place in a
typical range of localization tools,
we see that Monty's purpose is
to take the original packed data
structure and it converts it into
a generalized representation,
which is a tree-based representation.
That's the blue box in the middle.
From there,
the different classes of tools can either
modify it or edit it or just look at it.
For example,
workflow and localization tools,
or workflow localization tools,
generally don't need to
make any modifications.
They're just there to count strings,
layouts, and provide some sort of
estimate as to how much work is
involved in the localization.
So they will read the data only.
But because Monty provides
all these extraction services,
they can produce a better estimate of
the workload involved in this project.
Localization Tools then will typically
extract some part of the information,
either a layout or just simply text,
send it off to be translated,
and then reinsert that information again.
And that's the middle
purple box up above.
And then the last tool,
which is probably the simplest,
are the data editing tools.
They just open the structure,
look through it,
allow the user to make changes,
and repack the whole thing.
And when the changes or
whatever have been made,
Monty also provides the features,
or the facility,
to get from that internal representation
back to a packed binary data structure.
They have the same format
of the original data,
which the tools didn't
even need to know about.
So how Monty gets from a packed
binary structure into a generalized
representation is by means of
what I'm calling a disaster,
a data translator file.
Oh, yeah.
A data translator file is an
object-oriented data description.
It's a text-based
description of the data.
But because it's object-oriented,
generally we have very
simple translators,
but we use a lot of them
to define structures.
We do this where we have substructures,
list items,
or any kind of common sequence,
or macro sequence within
the data structure.
We're also using inheritance,
which means that if you have one data
type that is very similar to another,
but with the addition of several fields,
then you can inherit the new type,
or you can inherit the old type
when you create the new type.
This means to modify your
translator to deal with a new type,
you typically only have to add one
or two lines to the data translator.
You don't have to edit an 8,000
line template file anymore.
Which means, which means, which means,
We can finally deal with PPOBS easily.
We'll go back to the keyboard.
If we look at a sample data translator
for a very simple data structure,
you can see the main points.
First of all,
that this structure is text,
or the translator is text-based.
Now, doing this allows us to extend the
translator language in the future,
which was a problem we had
with the template mechanism,
that it really wasn't able
to be extended very far.
So, in this particular structure here,
we have six fields,
and they're each represented
by a line in the translator.
We've labeled them top, left, right,
bottom.
This could be an item within a
graphical user interface layout.
It has some text,
and it has a bounding box.
It's a very simple structure.
It's probably so simple that you've
never come across one in real life,
but it fits on the slide.
So, let's look at the next slide.
But most structures are
more complicated than this.
And the first level of complexity
away from this is lists of items.
But in Monty, when we define a list,
we use at least two translators.
First of all, we define a translator
for the list items,
and then we can include those into
the larger enclosing translator,
which defines the item,
the entire structure.
So for the example here,
we have a very simple
styled text type resource,
or style text list item.
And this could be for a font menu,
or it could be for anything that
needs to gather a list of style texts.
And we first create a translator
for each individual item.
And in this case,
there's an integer font ID followed
by a string with the text of the item.
Then we can include that translator to
define each item of the list of items.
And that's what the
second translator does.
And you see that it uses the list
command to include the first translator.
This way, if the list item changes,
we don't have to change
the simple list translator.
We just need to redefine the
structure of the list item.
And it's time-saving again,
especially if those items appear in
other types of structures on their
own or in different arrangements.
We've changed it from one place.
The next problem we have typically
is that a list of items where all
the items are the same is quite rare.
In even the simplest structures,
like a Dittl resource
from the classic world,
we'll find that there are
different types of data,
and they're identified by
one or more keyword values.
So in Monty,
we refer to these as variant structures,
and I've shown two very
simple variants up above,
where the type of the structure is
decided by the value of the first field.
Now, one is an item, a textual item,
the other is a picture item.
There could be other fields.
But to define this in Monty,
we first make a translator
for the basic type.
These are the fields that don't
change no matter what the format is.
And in this case, there's only one field
that doesn't change.
It's the first item which identifies it.
Then, having done that,
we can define variant translators by
just saying that this translator is
a variant of the basic translator,
where the type field is equal to 1, 2,
or anything.
Monty uses this information when
it's presented with a block of data.
It uses this so that it can-- it
uses this information to decide
which format of the data it has and
generate the proper information.
So no more case statements.
You're actually dealing
with actual structures.
So I've only shown a single
level of variance here,
where we're deriving two
variants from a common base.
But it's possible to derive a variant
from a variant from a variant and build
up entire frameworks of translators.
And a very important framework for
a lot of you is the power plant one,
which I'm now going to
demonstrate a little more.
Thank you.
So I'm going to show you a more
complicated translator file,
and you'll see why it
didn't fit on the slide.
So if we look at-- we have a basic set
of PowerPlant PPOB templates defined
using the Monty translator language.
Just out of interest,
you see a lot of them make use of
inserting existing types to define it.
For example,
this LTexColumn class is four lines long,
its definition.
The old template for this class
would have been 20 or 30 lines long.
So by making these translations smaller,
they're easier to debug.
You're building on existing work.
You don't have to try and debug the
whole 8,000 line thing every time.
So I have an application here that
I know has a custom type in it.
And the custom type is a
class with the ID ERCL.
Now, the existing templates
don't include this,
but I can just produce a
definition by looking at the
C type or talking to the engineer,
whatever we normally do,
and adding this new type.
I know that this type is based
on the text column class,
which I just showed you.
But it has the addition of an icon ID.
So I'm going to add this field here.
And I'll give it a little label.
Save that off.
And now I'm going to show you a
little tool that we developed pretty
quickly just to test the Monty
API and to show how really easy it
is to produce applications developed
or based on this technology.
This is a simple data
viewing application,
and I'm going to use it to open our
little power plant application and
have a look at the PPOPs inside it.
In fact, there's only one PPOP.
But if we look down the list, this
- First element here is
defined as a C error table,
which was the class that I've
just defined with my one line.
and right at the end,
these are all the information that
came from the original Colm view.
And there's the fields that I added,
the icon.
Now to implement that new type,
I just had to add one line and
create a new translator file.
Because this thing was
in a separate file,
it's easier to version control it
because you're not modifying the
same translator over and over again.
And you can create translator
files for particular projects
and manage them better.
But that's about that.
So and come back to that.
Now,
because it's easy to add new data types,
we have another problem,
which is more a problem of
success than anything else,
that we'll sooner or later
end up with about 300 or 400
different data translators.
So we're nearly back to the
situation we had before,
where the tool needs to know
about every single data type,
because all of these types
have different field names,
different structures,
and there are different things
that need to be taken out.
For example, the localizable text of a
button could be called title,
whereas the localizable text of a static
text item could be called the text.
The tool would need to
know this information.
Well, it would if it wasn't for Monty,
because Monty provides a mechanism
of mapping complicated data types
into a set of standard properties,
which tools can then use to extract,
for example, the localizable text.
So we'll take two structures here,
where they have very
different internal structures,
but in both cases, there is some element
of localizable text.
But what we can do is we can
define a Monty translator.
It says, for structure A,
the fourth element is
the localizable text,
and for structure B,
it's the third element.
Now tools can just look for the
locale text property and say,
I want that, or I want to change that,
or let me do this and that.
We've defined several standard
properties with Monty for things such as
localizable text and bounding rectangles,
and all suggestions are welcome.
But the idea is to keep
the names consistent.
So now we can treat very
different data types,
basically using the same tool.
And now the tool doesn't even
need to know the name of the text.
It doesn't even need to
know what it's dealing with.
The tool is lifted away
from needing to know about a
Dittl or a Powerplant layout,
and now it just knows I have a layout
with text and bounding rectangles.
So I'm going to show a
little demo of using this.
You can have the...
I have a very,
very simple application here.
And that's what it says.
Okay, that took months, that did.
Okay, so I also have an Apple script.
And that AppleScript is going
to interface with an application
that we've written that provides
an AppleScript interface
to the Monte library.
What it'll do is it'll open that
application's Dittl resource,
which was the source of that message,
and change the text of the
items and resize the button.
And I'm just going to run this.
is going to ask me for the
application I want to change,
which is this simple application.
Let it run.
Now I'm going to launch
the same application,
and it's being translated.
You notice the button
has also been resized.
But this Apple script didn't know
anything about the Dittl format.
If we look at the script again, it
brains of this is down here.
And basically it asks for two properties.
It asks for the name or it
asks for the local text,
which is the localizable
text of the item,
and changes it.
And then it asks for the bounds
of the box and changes that.
The script doesn't know
that that was a dittle.
It just knew that there was a layout
with text and bounding rectangles.
And this is one of the
things you can do with Monty.
So if you have tools that
need to work on layouts,
then Monty is going to make
these a lot easier for you.
If you have data editing tools,
Monty is going to make
it a lot easier for you.
In fact, Monty is going to be pretty
useful if you're involved
in any kind of localization.
So we hope you're going to use it.
Now we can go back to the...
and one of the applications of Monty,
which I'm sure you'll
be very interested in,
is AppleGlot 3.
And to talk to us about that,
we've got Mike Butler.
Thanks, Christian.
Hello, can you hear me?
So what is AppleGlot 3?
I'm sure most of you
know what AppleGlot is,
so you don't really need
me to go through that.
But just say that AppleGlot 3 is still
a text extraction and insertion tool.
is still forms incremental localization.
But as Colm said, the important thing is
that it's completely new.
We've thrown away all the sources.
We've started from scratch.
So all those problems
you've had with AppleGlot,
we've had a blank sheet.
We can start again,
decide how to do it properly.
So what are the benefits of AppleGlot 3?
Well, the reason we're all here
this week is Mac OS X.
So AppleGlot 3 provides Mac OS X support.
But as Colm said,
AppleGlot 3 is a user of Monty.
And Monty hides all that
low-level stuff for us.
We no longer care about data formats.
All we need is get Monty to look at
our data and decide that's localizable.
So it could be OS 8, OS 9, or OS 10.
We also have full Unicode support,
and as Christian also said,
Unicode neatly gets around a lot of the
encoding problems that you normally have.
Besides this, it's one of the base
technologies of OS X,
and it's also a base
technology of Monty itself.
We know that performance is a big
issue for a lot of AppleGlot users.
But if you think about it,
AppleGlot has been around since '87.
The files that AppleGlot used to
process back then were in tens of K,
hundreds of K.
Now they're in tens of megabytes.
AppleGlot just wasn't designed
to handle that sort of data.
So we've started Scratch so we can.
We've designed, we've used modern
technologies like Monty,
and we've used modern techniques
to solve these problems.
We also know from talking to you
that AppleGlot is not so easy to use.
So we've designed a
modern user interface.
And whatever we could make automatable
to take the judge out of the work,
we did.
And whatever we couldn't,
we made it easy to use,
but we also made it as safe as possible.
We have a number of versions of
the same file hanging around.
We wanted to make it impossible
to choose the wrong version.
This is the biggie.
We made it extensible.
We didn't want to be back here
in a couple of years going,
everything's changed again.
We needed to do AppleGlot from scratch.
So we've made AppleGlot
scalable in the first case,
but we've also made it
completely modifiable.
If a new data format comes along, well,
Monty will look after that first.
But if a new process comes along,
if you wanted to do something different,
well,
then you can modify AppleGlot yourselves
to do whatever you need to do.
As Colm said, if you needed to link up
with a machine translator,
then you can do that yourself.
yourself.
So before I go on,
you can look at AppleGlot from two ways.
You can look at it as just a user.
I want to use AppleGlot 3 just the
way I've always used AppleGlot.
So I'll just look through some of the new
UI features that we have in AppleGlot.
We can also look at it--
because it's so flexible,
you can look at it from a developer.
It's almost like a framework
for localization tools.
You can decide,
I want to do something completely
different with AppleGlot.
You can do it.
Chances are you can do it.
So we'll look at that in the
second section of the presentation.
So some of the main features of the UI.
We have automatic and
intelligent file matching.
If you have a project of, say, 100 files,
if you're localizing in under iOS 8 or 9,
you'll have four versions of
those files hanging around.
You'll need to match all of
them up together to perform
incremental localization.
If you have OS X, you'll have to match up
two versions of each file.
Obviously, this takes quite a while.
So AppleGlot 3 provides a
couple of different mechanisms.
First, it will provide automatic
matching if it can.
Where it can't,
it will try to intelligently
match the files.
And where it really can't
match any of the files at all,
it'll let you do it.
But first, it makes it easy.
And second,
it just won't let you-- or will try not
to let you choose the wrong version.
It should make it a lot more safe.
Again, if you have a large project, say,
for example, a system folder,
you're not going to work with
all of those files at one go.
You're really only generally going
to work with a small section of them.
So again, if you had a system folder,
you might only work
with the control panels,
or you might only work
with the extensions.
So we've introduced the
concept of file groups.
This just lets you group
your files together.
You can look at all your files
as normal under AppleGlot 3,
or you can decide,
I just want to look at one of my groups.
So I only want to look at, say,
my control panels,
or I only want to look at, say,
my extensions.
So file groups allow us to do this.
We wanted to make the
UI itself extendable,
so we've added script support.
You can run scripts yourself.
So you can choose a number
of files inside AppleGlot and
run a script on those files.
Or you can run them on all
the files in the new lock,
or whatever you want to do.
You also added external tool support,
so if you want to view
files in external tools,
Interface Builder,
or Resource or whatever,
you can just choose it very
easily with AppleGlot 3.
And to support some of this stuff,
we've extended the environment.
We have a couple of new
folders in there to handle,
say, plugins and scripts
that I've talked about.
But we've also given it a distinctive
icon to make it easier to recognize.
And we've made the folder
itself intelligent.
So if you drop support files
on the environment folder,
they'll automatically get
put in the correct subfolder.
So if you have-- it's
like the system folder.
Again, if you're dropping on control
panels onto the system folder,
they go into the control panel folder.
You drop a plugin on the environment,
it'll go into the plugin folder.
So I have a tool here which we
use to test AppleGlot itself.
But it contains some of the
features that I've just described
and may make it more clear.
So I'm just going to choose
a small environment here.
And this window will look pretty similar
to what you normally see with AppleGlot.
Sorry, can you switch screens?
OK, so I've just opened-- actually,
I've opened the wrong environment there.
We'll open up a small environment first.
OK, this looks pretty much
like your old AppleGlot.
And we have our four columns representing
the four files that we need to perform
incremental localization under OS 9.
As you can see,
AppleGlot hasn't been able
to match some of the files.
and it's done one of them,
but we need to match some
of the others ourselves.
Now, if this is the old AppleGlot,
you'd have to go off into another file.
All your files would be
sorted in a different order,
and you'd have to use standard file
dialog to choose whichever file.
With AppleGlot 3,
we have contextual menus.
So you can simply go
down and choose a file,
but you're only presented
with the appropriate files.
You're not given all of the files there.
You're just the two that, in this case,
are available in the new lock folder.
So I can simply just choose
the appropriate file.
Now you can see that it's been
able to make an intelligent
guess at the old lock version,
but this also fills out some more
information so it's been able to
guess at all the other ones as well.
So it's done a little bit of
automatic matching for you,
but you've done some of it as well.
So just take a look at a
slightly larger environment.
Okay, this is probably a bit more normal.
You have a whole load of files.
There's a lot of information here.
So as I said, we have file groups.
And this is an environment
I've used before,
so I've set up a couple of groups myself.
I have a control panels
group and an extension group.
So I simply just select one,
and then I only have those three files.
I can work my way on those.
I can process them as I want.
Or I can switch over
to my extension files,
do the same.
And when I want to batch
all of them together,
I can simply show all of the files
and do whatever I need to do.
But we've matched all the files here,
so there's a whole lot of
information here that we don't need.
We don't need all the
three columns on the right.
So we can shrink it down
to just show one column.
as my hard drive spins.
That is my hard drive,
but it's not that slow.
Don't worry.
We hope.
OK, well, it was a test tool.
It's not our real application.
Anyway,
what would have happened there was
that you'd just see the one column.
You could resize it as normal,
and all you'd have is
your one set of files.
So I'll just go back now to the slides.
So as I said, the UI is not the big
part of AppleGlot 3.
It's the architecture,
what that allows you to do.
So if we'll just take a look at that now.
Monty, as I said, we use Monty.
So that takes away a lot of the icky,
low-level stuff for us.
That leaves AppleGlot itself being
much simpler and much cleaner.
That leaves us with AppleGlot being, say,
a set of managers that provide services,
and just a state machine.
The managers provide services like
managing the environment for you,
they manage plugins,
they manage errors and
logs and stuff like that.
But the power comes from being
able to write your own plugins.
You can write a plugin that will
change the way the managers work.
So you can write a plugin that would,
say, change the way the
glossary manager works.
So instead of coming back
with just one translation,
it would come back with, say,
maybe five of the closest matches.
Or go off to a machine translator and
pull back a translation from that.
Similarly, the state machine processes
the files for you,
but you can write plugins that
will fit into the state machine.
So you can change the way
the state machine works.
So you can,
if you want to handle a particular
data format a different way yourself,
you can do that just by overwriting the
normal default behavior of the plugins.
Now, there's no UI shown here.
It's completely separate.
It's just a user of AppleGlot.
It's just a user of the services.
So you can write your own UI or whatever
you want to put on top to control it.
The UI that we provide, well,
that also has plugins.
So they just let you alter
your own plugin behavior,
or let the user alter
without you having to write
user interface code yourself.
So just to look at it
in slightly more detail,
we have the state machine and the
managers which make up AppleGlot itself.
Then we have the plugins that the
state machine uses to alter the
behavior of the state machine,
or how it processes files.
And we can also see here
where Monty fits in.
Monty fits in under the plugins.
So if you're a plugin,
if you don't want to use
Monty as your base technology,
you can go do whatever you want.
But obviously,
we believe Monty is the best thing to do.
The manager's managing
the environment for you,
and you can write plugins that will
change the way the manager works.
The UI just sits on top of it all,
and you can write any
other UI as you want.
So you can write a
command line interface,
package the whole of AppleGlot up,
and use it as part of a build system.
Or you can package it up with
Apple events and just use it
completely from scripts if you want.
So just to go through some
of the services we provide,
we have environment
services that I mentioned.
These just manage files.
They do the matching of the
files for you if you want.
We have glossary services.
These look after the internal glossary.
So they look after looking
up translations or asking
for translations like that.
We have logging services,
which just log errors and warnings
and whatever notes you want to log.
We have plugin services.
Now you wouldn't normally use these.
AppleGlot himself uses these
to manage all the plugins.
But if you needed to control
the plugins yourself,
you could do that.
And finally,
we have State Machine Services.
So this just lets you
control the state machine,
start it off, stop it,
and get information from it.
So the snake machine itself,
a bit like the passes you
have in the current AppleGlot,
has three modes of execution.
We have extraction,
where you would run through the
snake machine just to extract data.
We have insertion,
where it just runs through the
snake machine to insert data.
And we have a final mode,
which AppleGlot 3 itself doesn't use,
but it's there for anybody
who wants to write a plugin.
You could maybe do verification or
tidy up or do whatever you need to
do after the file has been created.
So the state machine itself is
just like any state machine.
It runs through a series of states.
It completes everything it
needs to complete in one state
before moving on to the next.
The states are kind of
separated out in AppleGlot 3.
We have preprocessing states,
and these are called before
any processing is done,
obviously.
So you'll be called, say,
before a file is opened to be processed.
You would be called before a
particular data type is processed,
or it would be called before the
individual piece of data is processed.
We have the data processing state itself,
where you would either
extract or insert data.
And we have the post-processing states.
And these states just give
you a chance to clean up.
So after the data type state,
you can maybe get rid of the
translators or the templates.
After the file state,
then you maybe close the file or
do whatever you need to do to tidy
up after processing that file.
The states themselves
don't contain any logic.
All they do is they call out
all of the plugins registered
to be executed in that state.
And they execute those plugins in order
before moving on to the next state.
where they will execute all
the plugins that are registered
to execute in that state,
and it will keep going on as it
moves through all the different
states in the state machine.
So the plugins themselves.
AppleGlot comes with a
set of default plugins.
These implement the normal behaviors
that you expect AppleGlot to do.
But because we have these as plugins,
you can just very subtly override
what it does by providing your
own plugin that does something,
but doesn't affect any
of the other behaviors.
Or you can ditch them all together and
do whatever you need to do yourself.
One single plugin can act as
a number of different plugins.
So you have one plugin that
may be a state machine plugin,
and may be a preference panel plugin.
It's nice for packaging up your
plugins if you want to send it out.
Or it's also handy for passing
information between plugins.
So the types of plugins we have,
as I said, we have service plugins.
So glossary plugins, again,
you're managing your glossary,
so you can change the way the
glossary lookups are done.
An example of that, as I said,
was Fuzzy matching our
machine translation.
We have glossary file plugins.
This just manages the way the
glossary is written to disk.
So if you don't like the way
Apple writes the glossary to disk,
you can maybe write it as an XML file
or write it in some form that
some other process needs to use.
We have log exporters.
So if you like writing
a log exporter plugin,
if you want your errors and warnings
to go through the screen so the
user can do something straight away,
well, you can do that.
Or you can even go out
to the files as normal.
We have state machine plugins.
As I said, they alter the way the
state machine behaves.
And we've gone through that.
We have preference plugins.
And these just let you give the user a
user interface to choose what it wants
to do with your plugins without you
having to write the interface yourself.
So the things to take
away from AppleGlot 3.
AppleGlot 3 works simply and
efficiently with Mac OS 8,
9, and 10.
AppleLock3 can be customized
to fit your own requirements,
so you get AppleGlot to
do what you want to do.
You don't have to fit in
with the way AppleGlot works.
And AppleGlot 3, well,
the UI has evolved,
but we believe that the
potential with the architecture
means that it's a revolution,
and we believe it is as revolutionary
as the original AppleGlot itself.
So I'd just like to welcome Colm
back on stage to run through the
more information and to get the
questions and answers started.
Thank you.
Okay, thank you.
So I hope that these two technologies
that we're making available to
you are actually going to be
useful within your processes.
I know they're certainly going to
be useful internally in Apple in
our own localization processes.
So, you know,
there's certainly plenty of information.
We could go into an
awful lot of depth here.
I don't think it would be
of value at this stage.
But these are fairly complex
applications and tools here.
But we've provided very,
very simple interfaces for you to use.
And so what we want to do is
we're going to make available
quite extensive examples,
application, sample applications,
UI documentation, SDKs, etc.
And we're going to make these available
to you through the normal WWDR websites.
And we also have a
contact manager as well,
who's going to basically handle
all the questions and comments and
suggestions which you may have.
And I actively encourage all you users
of these particular technologies to,
you know, send your feedback,
send your comments to us,
and we'll certainly respond to them.
It's only by, you know,
getting us the information and the
suggestions that we're actually going
to make these and evolve these into
even better tools and technologies.
So what I want to do is just
give you an idea of where these
are in the development cycle.
First of all, Monty is almost GM.
In the next couple of weeks,
you're going to see this information.
And we're going to have a lot of
great information available on
the developer.apple.com websites.
The information will
be provided up there.
It'll be packaged in the
format that you require.
The Apple framework itself,
we're actually currently just finalizing
the internal architecture at the moment.
So in the next month or so,
you're going to start to see the first
alpha and beta applications up there.
And I actively, again,
encourage you to take those applications,
use them for, you know,
whatever you want,
sample projects or live projects.
Give us the feedback.
Because we have a fairly
aggressive GM target date
in a couple of months' time,
and we certainly want to incorporate as
much features from you guys as possible.
And we also actively encourage
you to start with the SDKs,
look at how you can actually customize
the operation of particularly
Apple's lot and how you can get
that working more effectively
and efficiently in your process.
So what I'd like to do is just
point you at a related session
immediately following this session.
We've got a
Mac OS X localization session,
session 157, following in this hall.
And I'd encourage you to
attend that session also.
There's some very valuable
information to be learned about what
you need to do to localize for X.
And that session is going to run for
approximately an hour and a half also.
So what I want to do now is actually,
I know a number of you have questions,
so I'd like to encourage you to...